hi everyone
uh thank you so much for joining today
and i'm
very honored to host all of you and
joining
if you're joining from the west coast uh
good morning and if you're joining for
uh from other parts of the country good
afternoon or
uh hopefully still good morning uh and
then
good evening if you're from other parts
of the world so appreciate everyone
joining you can call me mk
for the rest of the session i will make
it easier for you
um i wanted to also open it up by saying
that
we you know we have about 25 minutes or
so together so
let's make this interactive please ask
questions uh for yourself and for others
as well
so we can have a good discussion and
hopefully you take something meaningful
out of this so
i appreciate knowing everybody so
what i thought i'll kick off with are a
few
misunderstandings and insights that i've
learned
over the course of being cmos at
startups and also
at being in a big company instead of
running a portfolio of products
that i wanted to share with all of you
these are obviously my personal opinions
they don't i
you know they don't reflect my company
but uh these are experiences as a
marketer that i've
sort of accrued as part of my career um
so the first part uh that i wanted to
share was
um one of the things that i have
recognized
as as being in a company that actually
markets to consumers as well as b2b
is that bw buyers tend to be rational
and committee buyers
and so uh you know they don't tend to
respond to
an emotional um need
they tend to be very much a uh
you know logical reinforcement driven
type
purchase decision so often these this
means that you need your checklist or
you need your
um uh you know you need your how-to
videos these are things that do
matter for a b2b buyer and and most of
you already
know this that a lot of discovery
happens before they even hit your site
right so
uh that's why that like cross
influential marketing becomes a pretty
critical
part of any b2b marketing and often
one of the things that a lot of
marketers tend to spend on is brand
messages that have emotional appeal and
it's necessary to like it's not
necessary to have that because
often um you know buyers uh they may
respond to it but that's not needed and
it's very difficult to nail that in a
b2b
uh marketing motion um
i would say it's not just a top-down
sale and this is especially true for the
freemium or the smb
products or team sales products
you know you sometimes having a top-down
initiative is really good but sometimes
the cio might actually just defer it
back to
their head of it or uh the smb
owner might like let the team uh
functionally
at the team make a decision so it's sort
of important to have
a good idea of what that bar journey
looks like it may not be top down
there's a lot of vendors out there right
now targeting the cxo
audience so that mine share is the tap
so sometimes you might you're better off
trying
you can try that but you should also try
some organic bottoms
up style innovation because that
actually
sometimes ends up becoming a good way to
influence and build your influence
especially in a committee
type sale so just think about how your
buyer journey is not always going to be
i need to target cio also from marketing
point of view
cio uh plus or cxo
marketing tends to be pretty expensive
and so
you know you sort of need to think about
roi of your programs
i would say um multi multi-touch is a
lot of work
sometimes with multi-touch each touch
point has a whole list of
materials or marketing action
or thinking through the mechanics of a
multi-touch
these are important but they can also
cause
a lot of budget items and sometimes it's
very hard to justify roi
so uh be very deliberate in how you're
thinking about multi-touch
have a good sense of what a multi-touch
looks like but
um you know multi-touch is very hard to
actually
prove roi and sometimes you get
questioned by your finance peers as to
like oh i don't know about all these
multi-touch points and
you know what is the event roi or what
is the roi of a dimension campaign
that's media and
you know trying to prove out a
multi-touch model requires a good sense
of research that goes into it so just
be very deliberate about your
programming of your multi-touch
uh because it does become very resource
intensive
um need to land launching is not enough
so
often the product marketers do this
where our p product managers where
you know there is an innovation and you
launch it and
woohoo great like coverage or you know
customers like that on first day
but then not a lot of thought is spent
on
landing your products so whether it's
thinking about how do you get someone to
actually use it
or what is the life cycle marketing of
the actual
announcement is often not baked into
plans so
really critical to stop thinking about
launches and thinking more around
landings
and having metrics associated with
landings and trying to drive towards
that because
behaviors will change actions will
change but often
product markers are very like interested
in launching instead of moving on to the
next thing and
while that's okay it often doesn't
actually generate
um a ton of uh action
and a ton of um you know a ton of
uh product utilization and for most sas
companies
especially when you're thinking about um
when you're thinking about uh
you know monthly active users or daily
active users landing becomes
very critical um data is never perfect
benchmarking is key so i can't ima i
don't know how many marketers i've
talked to have said
oh our analytics is broken or you know
we use multi-touch but it's hard to
track we have this
ingrown analytics stack
or a tech stack that supports analytics
and then over the course of years
it's uh always tech debt or analytics
that
and those are the kind of things we want
to
avoid um in the long run
right so as if you're starting a company
and you're like early on
invest near a really good tech stack
that can last a very long time because
it does tend to become one of those
things that you can't really approve and
like switch out it's
becomes a big project eventually um a
lot of marketers will have it where
their series a or seed ground stack
doesn't actually hold up that they have
a scale product and like later stage
products because
it just scaled so quickly and now we've
ballooned into this like analytical
platform that doesn't support
the kind of marketing you want to do so
be very thoughtful about your initial
tech stack if you can
but eventually recognize that no data is
going to be perfect there's all of these
nuances in how it was set up and how
things were tagged
and so the key is to have a good sense
of
what your data is telling you
benchmarking that
and then eventually working towards
optimizing that because that's sort of
like your platform of what you have and
what you know
and aligning with your cost teams make
sure they agree with that mindset
because sometimes they don't sometimes
they'll say well i don't believe your
data
my data says something else and then
it's sort of like your data versus my
data and
becomes a really difficult uh
conversation so very critical to have
alignment on what the measurements are
not having too many of them and then
sort of sticking to them
as a way to benchmark and i'm happy to
take questions
on this too because i know this is a hot
topic for a lot of people
um i will say marketing is a partnership
it's not a service especially because
marketers are
so uh in b2b organizations are so
um wanting that alignment with their
sales team
sometimes we like go over the edge into
doing
things that marketers know are not even
right for the business but they'll do it
to drive alignment
and so i'm saying no builds trust uh and
if you're worried about things like
shadow marketing
or things like sales teams you know
trying to do things that like can be the
marketing
spectrum that's okay because often what
happens is you know what your strengths
are
and if you're really good at it your
sales teams and your cross-function
teams will rely on your driving that
so it's sort of important to like sort
out stick to
what you think is right for business
optimize for business in the long run
that's always what's going to matter
you know don't agree to things like uh
coordinating meetings and stuff like
that because
yes like that's great that you can align
your field teams online with their sales
teams but then
eventually if i don't think about
marketing roi it's not going to be those
things it's going to be things that
drive impact from the dollar spend that
you're given and you want to like kind
of focus on that so stay close to
impact as much as possible uh understand
when to say no
be very clear about what you're saying
no be upfront about that
uh that sort of builds a healthy
relationship between the two teams and a
healthy relationship is critical for the
business that you're trying to optimize
for the business
um a stakeholder that i did mention is
finance again that's another stakeholder
that you have to actually
get up to speed and evaluate too because
often finance teams are very like
i spent so much media and so therefore
what's roi and
you have to think hard about what does
multi-touch mean and does my finance
team understand that uh and so
tons and tons and tons of um
you know encouragement uh around like
evangelizing to your internal
stakeholders as to how like
new marketing works would be pretty
critical i see some comments here so i'm
gonna just quickly
pull up um yeah agree with adam by the
way solid sales enablement
absolutely helps i mean i think if you
have a solid sales enablement team
and you're thinking about the scaling
from the get-go
uh you actually don't need to be in this
like service organization because you
are thinking about enablement you're
thinking about scaling
and you're not thinking about um
you know holding the team uh in a way
that like they are like not you need to
fend for themselves so it's really
important i think people bring that up
um and the last one i'll mention is um
just sign up for the
right goals not always is it
important to sign up for lead
targets uh in fact i think
unless you're an smb or a mid-market
um type of a company um
i would say lead targets are probably a
dangerous direction to go because
you're essentially insinuating that this
is a scale
assembly business and i'm therefore i'm
taking lead targets on
those actually work maybe for the first
year
but eventually if you're selling to a
enterprise company often your sales
teams already have accounts right so
they
maybe account based marketing is what
you need to engage on and i'm sure
there's going to be a really good
content
uh as faster talking about account-based
marketing so
definitely tune in to all of those
sessions but you know if you're thinking
about account based marketing
then as a marketer your job is to not
only get them
leads i think it is to get them either
abm contacts that are warm
uh and that requires a whole set of
different types of activities
or it's to generate pipeline velocity
which is in some ways to create urgency
that might come from your pricing
strategy or your yield management
strategy or
promotions or partnerships those are
things that might drive pipeline
velocities so take those goals on
uh don't get in the breath of always
thinking about leads because then
it's then there's a whole discussion
around over you know this is a good
quality lead i don't know
and it's an enterprise sales therefore i
already knew the cio
and i don't know what marketing is doing
to contribute
all of those discussions i think can be
avoided
um if you you know are
tend to uh if you do tend to take on
goals that are more appropriate and
again
make sure you align on these goals up
front don't wait
on uh taking these goals on don't take a
lead goal on because like someone in the
company has a mindset that lead is what
i want
quantity often is not going to yield you
the best results so
be again very deliberate up front and if
you're not sure
about what sort of goes has said i think
that might be more symptomatic of not
knowing what the go-to market
is sometimes companies want to drive
business but they're like spread in so
many
directions uh for instance very early on
i will hear companies that are not
vertical solutions go into vertical
marketing
if you're not if you're not a vertical
product you're a fairly horizontal
product and going into something like a
vertical marketing
early on i think can be like a very
interesting
experiment but often that means you're
just experimenting with a go to market
motion you actually don't really know
what drives that sale so jason actually
lemkin
always talks about like the first 10
customers who
give you really good insight into where
uh there's a reputable opportunity in
trying to drive demand
i think like sort of spend some time
with the first 10 to 30 customers
and really understanding that before you
like plunge into a vertical marketing or
a
very functional marketing motion without
having that insight
definitely don't take those goals on
because then you're just setting
yourself up
uh to be accountable for those so these
were my
um seven or so insights
i would love to hear from the group if
you have any
do these resonate with you or what has
worked well it hasn't worked
it sounds like andy has some thoughts on
sales enablement framework that if he's
open to sharing would love to hear
um we'd love to hear from the group as
well let's let's have some dialogue
going
hi it's andy here i was just curious
what people have been using
for their sales enablement
methodologies tools homegrown off the
shelf so to speak
over the years i've come across a few in
there one that's still on my shelf
by customer centric selling
that's pretty old wondering what's new
and what others are using thanks
thank you for asking does anybody want
to share what sales enablement
tools or frameworks they're using these
days
yeah so um i'm bill i i'm the cmo at a
company called aerospike
and uh our my cro peer
adopted the challenger program a while
ago but i've i've run sales as well as
marketing so i've been through
probably all of them but um
you know that's that's only as good as
you reinforce it you know
and um you know we've also invested
around that in a firm happy to make
referrals by the way if anybody wants to
just reach out to me
um in mapping the buyer's journey and
what was really interesting about that
project is we actually engaged them to
reach out and interview customers and
our top
sales reps on what does it really look
like from the buyer's perspective so not
the sales journey but the buyer's
journey like what do they need from a
vendor to be able to make a decision
about a product in our category very
interesting and then what we did is
created a sales navigator tool
that sort of at each step described
what the customer needs and what we need
and and to guide our sales reps through
that journey
then we loaded all that into a tool
called high spot highly recommend that
for anybody who hasn't used it
very interesting tool for loading all
your
content and sales presentations and
competitive stuff
makes it really easy for sales people to
grab it and just send it
and to see if people have opened it but
it also integrates into salesforce so we
actually
have in salesforce at different stages
what tools are available to you
in high spots so it was a heavy lift to
do that
but i think challenger alone is just
only part of the part of the solution i
think you have to think about a lot of
what
mk has talked about and how do you
instrument that i'm not going to say
it's
you know all perfect sailing here but
our sales management team is enforcing
the sales navigator tool and you know so
far
so good so just if that's worthwhile
happy to talk offline with anybody
thank you for doing that uh if you don't
mind putting the url of high spot
someone was asking for that
in the chat that would be fabulous thank
you somebody just somebody just did for
me
thanks dean i owe you i owe you one
awesome
i asked for it and then posted it
fantastic i will say we challenge
challenger messaging i
have seen a lot of companies dabble into
it i think from a messaging point of
view
it's strong it does take a type of a
sales
muscle or personality to go into a
customer conversation
and actually go through the challenger
mythology
because you are challenging
effectively in a very respectful nice
way
what the customers net assumption and
mindset is and
sometimes um you know there's a certain
type of sales rep who's very confident
and graceful and can navigate that very
well but a lot of them actually
um do need a lot of training because it
is a little bit of a different type of a
conversation that not
everybody's comfortable with so i 100
agree with your bills
challenger can sort of get you far you
need to
get them there and it takes a lot of
[Music]
work
you